# Confidence sequences and uniform boundaries

This library supports calculation of uniform boundaries, confidence sequences,
and always-valid p-values. These constructs are useful in sequential A/B
testing, best-arm identification, and other sequential statistical
procedures. The main reference is

S. R. Howard, A. Ramdas, J. McAuliffe, J. Sekhon. [Uniform, nonparametric,
non-asymptotic confidence
sequences](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.08240). Preprint, arXiv:1810.08240.

This library is in early-stage development and should not be considered
stable. I have tested it only on Python 3.7.0 on macOS Mojave. The
implementation is in C++ and a compiler with C++14 support is required to build
the package.

## Installing the python package

Run `pip install confseq`.

## Demos

### Estimating average treatment effect in a randomized trial

`demo/ate_demo.py` illustrates how to compute a confidence sequence for average
treatment effect in a randomized trial with bounded potential outcomes, along
with an always-valid p-value sequence. The method is based on Corollary 2 of the
paper and uses the gamma-exponential mixture boundary. This demo requires
`numpy` and `pandas`.

## Uniform boundaries

The `confseq.boundaries` module implements several uniform boundaries from the
paper.

* There are four mixture boundaries. These are implemented by the functions
  `<TYPE>_log_mixture()` and `<TYPE>_mixture_bound()`, where `<TYPE>` is one of
  `normal` (Propositions 4 and 5), `gamma_exponential` (Proposition 8),
  `gamma_poisson` (Proposition 9), or `beta_binomial` (Propositions 6 and 7).
    * `<TYPE>_log_mixture(s, v, ...)` returns the logarithm of the mixture
      supermartingale when called with S\_t, the martingale, and V\_t, the
      intrinsic time process. The reciprocal of the exponential of this value is
      an always-valid p-value. These functions are denoted log(m(s,v)) in the
      paper.
    * `<TYPE>_mixture_bound(v, alpha, ...)` returns the uniform boundary with
      crossing probability at most alpha, evaluated at intrinsic time v.

    Each function takes another required argument `v_opt` and an optional
    argument `alpha_opt=0.05`. These arguments are used to set the tuning
    parameter for each mixture, denoted by rho or r in the paper, optimizing the
    uniform boundary with crossing probability `alpha_opt` for intrinsic time
    `v_opt`. Such tuning is discussed in section 3.5 of the paper.

    The gamma-exponential and gamma-Poisson mixtures also require a scale
    parameter `c`. The beta-binomial mixture requires range parameters `g` and
    `h`. Finally, the `normal_*` and `beta_binomial_*` functions accept an
    optional boolean parameter `is_one_sided` which is `True` by default. If
    `False`, the two-sided variants of these mixtures are used (Propositions 4
    and 6).
* The polynomial stitching boundary (see Theorem 1 and the subsequent example)
  is implemented by `poly_stitching_bound`. Besides `v` and `alpha`, this
  function requires the tuning parameter `v_min` as well as optional parameters
  `c`, `s`, and `eta`, all documented in the paper.

## C++ library

The underlying implementation is in a single-file, header-only C++ library in
`src/confseq/uniform_boundaries.h`. The top of the file defines a simplified
interface mirroring the Python interface described above. Below that is an
object-oriented interface useful for more involved work. The
`confseq.boundaries` Python module is a wrapper generated by
[pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11).

## Unit tests

Run `make -C /path/to/confseq/tests runtests` to run the C++ unit tests.
